Files in this directory with lowercase filenames contain descriptions of
verious general tasks a user might want to perform with a Debian system,
lists of packages that they might use to perform the tasks, and grouping
information to make related sets of tasks appear together.

The file format is a rfc-822 style stanza, with fields named Task, Section,
Description (which should include an extended descrition), Key, and
Packages. The Packages field should include the list of packages one per
line after it, indented by one space each, like so:

Packages:
 foo
 bar
 baz
 ...

When the task is selected, any of those packages that are available will be
selected.

The Key field is the same, but packages listed in it must be available or
the task should not be displayed at all. There's no need to list packages
in the Packages field if they are listed as Key.

Comments may appear in the file, by prefixing a line with a hash mark
('#').

Care should be taken when adding new tasks to ensure that the new task is
suitably generic -- it should be something of value to a large number (at
least 25%) of our users; and 90% of our users should be able to understand
what the task is from only its short description. It must not perform the
same general purpose as some other existing task. It must contain packages
that are the ones in most common use, and software that is of the best
perceived quality. These criteria are relaxed some if the task has an
appropriate test program. No more than 10 tasks should ever be displayed by
the program, so if there are more, the least-used tasks must be removed
when adding a new one.

There is support for automatically installing tasks based on test programs.
If a task has a Test-* field, then a program in /usr/lib/tasksel/tests/
will be run. For example Test-lang fields cause /usr/lib/tasksel/tests/lang
to be run. The test is passed first the name of the tasks, and then the
contents of the field as parameters. The exit code of the test controls
what to do with the task:

0 - do not display, but do install task
1 - do not display task
2 - display task, marked for installation
3 - display task, not marked for installation

One use of these tests is in automatically selecting a language task
appropriate for the user's locale, and hiding the rest. The lang test
handles this by comparing the value of the Test-lang field of a task with
the locale setting. Tests could also be used for things like automatically
installing hardware support tasks on systems with the right hardware.

There is rudimentary support for tasks that depend on other tasks. If a
task has a Depends field, then it should only be installed if all the tasks
listed as dependencies are installed.

Packages listed for different tasks (and within a single task)
should not conflict, or the results will be rather arbitrary.

Packages that are only available on some architectures, or that may not
be available on the user's installation media may still be listed. This 
is no problem, they are simply ignored in those cases. Take care listing
such packages as Key however.

List only real packages, not virtual packages.

Users are given the opportunity to drill down and select/unselect
individual packages; the tasks they select only serve as a starting
point. So err on the side of listing too many packages, rather than too
few (but don't go overboard, since many users will not bother with
package-level selection at first).

Keep short descriptions short -- very short -- and to the point. Do not
include details about what individual packages a task includes, tasksel
will do that for you.

If a task is important enough that it should go near the top of its
section, give it a relevance of 9 or 10. If a task is not likely to be
used, give it a relevance of 1. Default is 5. (Low relevance tasks are also
candidates for removal..)

Debian developers aside from the tasksel maintenance team may take over
maintenance of tasks. Talk with the tasksel developers first, and then put
your name in a Maintainer field in the task file you're maintaining.

Note that while you may put non-free or contrib packages in tasks, they
will not propagate out to the Task fields in the Packages files in the
Debian archive.
